                           Ruby/ManageSieve
                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


0. INTRODUCTION
1. REQUIREMENTS
2. INSTALLATION
3. LICENSE
4. AUTHOR
5. REFERENCES


0. INTRODUCTION
===============

Ruby/ManageSieve is a pure-ruby library for the MANAGESIEVE
protocol [1]. It allows programmatic control of Sieve [2] scripts, and
implements the following commands described in the MANAGESIEVE draft:

  * CAPABILITY
  * DELETESCRIPT
  * GETSCRIPT
  * HAVESPACE
  * LISTSCRIPTS
  * LOGOUT
  * PUTSCRIPT
  * SETACTIVE

The AUTHENTICATE command is partially implemented. Currently the LOGIN
and PLAIN authentication mechanisms are implemented.

Documentation is provided in the "doc" directory, and usage examples are
provided in the "examples" directory.

Some ideas from Ruby/ManageSieve were borrowed from
python-managesieve [3], the Python implementation and Net_Sieve [4], the
PHP implementation from the PEAR library.


1. REQUIREMENTS
===============

Ruby/ManageSieve requires Ruby version 1.8.1 or newer.


2. INSTALLATION
===============

Installation is straightforward: just run the command below (it requires
privileges to write in the ruby library directory).

# ruby install.rb

This command installs the managesieve library in ruby's site-wide
directory and the sievectl utility in ruby's bindir.

The sievectl utility is a small program that allows you to manage your
sieve scripts from the command line. It requires a config file located
in $HOME/.sievectlrc, with a series of items in the form "name: value":

mydomain:
  host:     sieve.mydomain.tld
  port:     2000
  user:     johndoe
  euser:    johndoe
  password: secret
  auth:     PLAIN

In the example above, "mydomain" is the name of the account, and the
indented variables below it are valid for that account only. Other
accounts can be added, as long as they have different names. Indentation
must be preserved.

The "port", "euser" and "auth" variables are optional, and their default
values are, respectively, 2000, the value of the "user" variable, and
"ANONYMOUS".

To learn how to use sievectl, type "sievectl help".


3. LICENSE
==========

Copyright (c) 2004-2023 Andre Nathan <andre@digirati.com.br>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.


4. AUTHOR
=========

Ruby/ManageSieve was developed by Andre Nathan.


5. REFERENCES
=============

[1] The MANAGESIEVE draft: 
    http://managesieve.rubyforge.org/draft-martin-managesieve-04.txt

[2] The Sieve email filtering language
    http://sieve.info/

[3] Python-managesieve:
    http://www.crazy-compilers.com/py-lib/managesieve.html

[4] Net_Sieve:
    http://pear.php.net/package/Net_Sieve
